Welcome to Movies Explained, today we're looking
at, Annihilation. A woman is sitting on a
chair with people looking from outside the
glass. Three men dressed in white protective
gear are questioning her. The man asks that
what did you eat and what rations she had
for two weeks. He reveals that you have been
inside for four months. The woman says she
doesn’t know anything. The man interrogates
her about what happened to Radek, Josie, and
other people as they were together. She gives
them the same answer again, “I don’t know.”
Scene shifts to a class. Professor Lena is
teaching the students about cells and their
evolution. She tells them that all cells were
the extension of one cell. 4 billion years
ago, a single organism existed on the plane
of the earth and universe. It became 2, then
four, then 8, and so one. She then shows a
tumor cell of a female patient in her early
30's from the cervix. She tells them they
will be observing tumors cells in vitro and
autophagic activity in their classes. She
is leaving for home when Dan stops her and
asks her to join Sara for a garden party.
She says she already has plans that day. Dan
tries to convince her, but she tells him she
has to paint her bedroom so she can't come.
Dan tells her that it has been almost a year.
You are allowed to go to a barbeque. It is
not a betrayal and disgrace to his memory.
She leaves and comes to her house, where she
cries by looking and the picture of his husband,
Kane. She starts painting their bedroom when
a man comes from behind, which is Kane. Lena
is astonished upon his arrival. She hugs and
kisses him.
She shares her concern with Kane that no one
knew about his unit. His partner also knew
as little as she did. Lena tries to ask Kane
what the mission was about; was it covert?
Kane has no answer and says I don't know;
maybe the mission was covert. She keeps on
questioning him about where was the mission?
Where was your base, and what about the rest
of the unit. Kane has no answer to her questions.
Lena says that you have been gone for more
than 12 months, and I don't know is not the
kind of answer I deserve. She then asks him,
that how did you get home? He tells him I
was outside the room, I saw you, and I recognized
you and your face. Kane drinks water, and
his condition starts to deteriorate. Lena
calls the ambulance. While they are in it,
heading to the hospital when Special Forces
stop them and take them to Area X.
Lena wakes up in a room feeling the hangover
from the sedative injected into her. A woman
comes in and tells her to sit. Lena asks her,
who are you. She gives Lena some water and
tells her that I am doctor Ventress and I
am a psychologist. She insists on knowing
where she is and where her husband is. Dr.
Ventress tells her that you served in the
military for seven years. Lena cuts her and
says that I am a professor from John Hopkins.
She asks Dr. Ventress for Kane again. Dr.
Ventress doesn't answer her question. Instead,
she counters questions and says, when did
Kane come back home? Did he tell you what
happened to him, or he contacted you at any
point? Lena says no, he didn't. Dr. Ventress
keeps directing questions towards Lena. In
the end, when Lena says I am not answering
your questions now; it's your turn. Dr. Ventress
tells her that her husband is extremely ill.
His multiple organs are failing, and there
is massive internal bleeding. Lena guesses
that he must be in contact with some radiation
or virus. She insists Dr. Ventress tell her
what happened to Kane so that she can help
him. Dr. Ventress takes her out and shows
her the thing they call The Shimmer.
Dr. Ventress tells Lena that they have many
theories about this thing. It started three
years ago when Blackwater National Park got
surrounded by something people call the Shimmer.
The event was classified. We sent people,
animals approached the place from sea and
land, but nothing ever came out. The boundary
of the Shimmer is expanding. She also tells
her that they evacuated the areas close to
it under the pretense of chemical spills,
but this protection will not last long, and
the site will grow to what it was. Lena says
that nothing comes back, but something did,
to which Dr. Ventress says yes. The scene
goes to the ICU, where Kane is on a ventilator.
Lena cries and says that he is dying, isn’t
he? Dr. Ventress tells her that we have to
decide what to do with you, Lena. Lena asks
her that you are not going to let me go home,
to which Dr. Ventress says, that do you want
to go home? Lena says no.
The scene shifts, and Kane and Lena are lying
on the bedside by the side. Lena says to Kane
that you are thinking about his next mission,
to which he says I am looking at the moon.
It is weird to see it in the daylight. Lena
says God made a mistake. Kane corrects her
and says he doesn’t make mistakes; that
is the key to be a god. Lena says he does.
She starts explaining to Kane about the cell
that it doesn’t grow old it becomes immortal.
It keeps dividing but never dies. They say
aging is a natural process, but actually,
it is a fault in our genes. She then directs
a question towards Kane that where are you
heading this time. She says something is strange
about this one. Kane asks her why she feels
this way, to which she says that the silence
around you is louder than usual. Kane smiles
at her and says I know we will be under the
same hemisphere. Lena looks at her with suspicion
and says, what does this mean. He explains
that you will step outside in the garden and
look at the same stars like me. They both
laugh and make love.
Lena is standing alone when a woman comes
to her and makes an introduction. Anya takes
her to her friends, and they all greet Lena.
Cassie Sheppard, Josie Radek make their introduction.
While they are drinking, one of them asks
her that is this your first day at Southern
Reach. Lena counters the question and says,
you have been here for a long time. Josie
tells her that she is a physicist, testing
magnetic fields around the boundary, and has
been here for two months. Cassie tells her
that she is an anthropologist, Anya’s a
paramedic. They ask Lena for her story. She
tells them that she is a biologist. Anya and
the others tell her that they were making
guesses about her that she is from law enforcement,
single, etc. They then reveal to her that
they are going inside the Shimmer in four
days, and the team of scientists will be lead
by Dr. Ventress. Cassie tells her that all
the previous units that went in the Shimmer
were military, and now it is time for the
scientists to go. Lena asks them, that what
do you think happened to the people there?
Anya tells her that there are two theories.
One is that something kills them, and the
second is that they become crazy and kill
each other. They then talk about a military
guy who came out, a sergeant. They are talking
about Kane, but Lena doesn’t tell them her
connection to him.
Kane is kept in intensive care and is in quarantine.
Lena comes to see him and sits close to him.
She says I am so sorry. I know what I have
to do now. Dr. Ventress asks her that you
didn’t tell the women about you and Kane.
Lena says that it would complicate things.
Lena then asks Dr. Ventress that why she is
going in the shimmer? She reads the mission
statement, to which Lena says that your mission
statement is not like this one. Dr. Ventress
tells her that I have selected volunteers,
sent teams inside, and watched them never
return.
I watch the shimmer grow closer, and I want
to know what is happening inside. Lena agrees
with her and says she wants answers too. Lena
reveals her intention of joining them in the
expedition. She says I can't do anything from
here. I have to go in. The man appears again
and says that you requested to join a mission
with no survivors, and the only one that came
out was barely surviving. Lena says that I
owed Kane this, and so I went in.
The team enters the Shimmer. Lena has a vision
of her affair with his colleague Dan. She
wakes up inside a camp, unzips it, and goes
outside. Anya and Cassie are searching for
the food rations. Lena says that she is a
little disoriented. They all tell her that
they also don’t remember setting up a camp,
and we remember nothing after entering the
Shimmer. Cassies says that the food depletion
indicates that we have been inside for at
least 3 to four days. Lena says in shock that
this is not possible. They check for signals,
but they find none. They are in Shimmer with
no comms, no radio, and no compass. Dr. Ventress
says that this was all expected after three
years of radio silence. They pack their stuff
and start moving.
They find a swamp, and Lena looks at the flowers
and says that it is strange. They are different,
so you wouldn’t know they are from the same
species but are growing from the same branch
structure, so they have to be from the same
species. They all start collecting different
samples. Suddenly something grabs Redek inside
the small hut by the water. Lena and others
follow her and help her to get out of it.
There is a splashing and growling sound. They
all point a gun at the water. An alligator
comes out, and they start shooting it multiple
times. It is not affected by a single bullet,
but after some shots, it finally dies. Lena
opens its mouth and checks it. She says that
something is making changes in the genes.
Dr. Ventress guesses it may be a crossbreed,
but Lena thinks it can't be between different
species.
Lena tells the man about the mutations that
were subtle in the beginning and got corrupt
as she got close to the light. The man asks
him that were there hallucinations? Lena says
that I wonder that myself, but everything
was shared. It was not always like a nightmare
sometimes; it was beautiful.
All of them are traveling in a boat when Cassie
asks Lena about years in the military. She
says, what you wear around your neck, to which
Lena replies, my husband. Cassie says that
everyone here is damaged goods. Anya is an
addict. Josie tried to take her own life while
Dr. Ventress had no friends and no family.
She then tells her about her daughter, whom
she lost to leukemia. They find the headquarters
of the last team. They go in, drop their bags
and go looking around. Lena finds a board
with the names of the soldiers from the previous
expedition. Some of the names were crossed.
Dr. Ventress finds a sealed plastic bag with
a memory card. They play the video and see
Kane carrying a field operation. Kane cuts
the man's stomach, and something is moving
in his intestines. Anya says that this can’t
happen. They conclude that all the people
went mad. All of them start arguing. Josie
says that I don't want to stay here. Lena
sees a dream of Kane leaving for the mission.
He says I love you and leaves. Lena wakes
up and goes to check on Dr. Ventress.
Dr. Ventress tells her the plan and says that
it was good not to tell them about Kane. I
am not sure how they must have reacted. Lena
asks Dr. Ventress that why she volunteered
for a suicide mission? She says you are confusing
self-destruction with suicide. They are talking
when the lights go off, and they hear some
noises. They take a look at the fence and
find out something crossed it. Suddenly something
takes Cassie and disappears. In the morning,
everyone is scared. Anya says that we are
attacked twice, we should go back, but Ventress
says we have to reach the lighthouse. She
argues that we have pictures, data, graphs,
and everything we should go. Lena says that
the best route to reach out is to go to the
base. The man asks Lena that you lied to her.
He says you made decisions to which Lena says
Ventress did. The man said that you knew she
was never coming back and she had cancer.
She said I guessed. I wanted to continue.
Lena guesses that Cassie can be alive. She
goes to check out and finds her dead body.
They find a place to camp. They see flowers
growing in human shape. Anya says it doesn't
make any sense. Josie tells her it does. She
explains her theory that the shimmer breaks
light waves. The signals are not gone; they
scramble. She further tells them that shimmer
is like a prism it refracts everything, not
just waves but all kinds of DNA. They find
a house, secure it and go to take some sleep.
Lena wakes up in the middle of the night and
finds mutations in her blood. Anya points
a gun at her and ties Lena, Ventress, and
Josie to a chair. She says that Lena is a
liar, and she killed Cassie. She is crying
and venting when Cassie's voice comes, and
Anya follows. The mutant bear comes and kills
Anya before they kill it. Ventress leaves
for the lighthouse. Josie is scared and says
that Cassie's voice in the creature; Josie
says to Lena that you want to fight this thing.
Ventress wants to face it; I can't do both.
She goes and becomes a human flower. The man
said all of them disappeared why didn't you.
She says I knew I had to come back; they didn't.
Lena goes into the lighthouse. She finds a
camera and plays the video. Kane says that
I thought I was a man, had a life, and people
called me Kane. I am not sure anymore. He
says the man behind the camera finds Lena
and blows a grenade, and dies. The man comes
and is an alien who assumes Kane's identity.
Lena finds his remains there. She goes down
the hole and finds Ventress saying some words.
Ventress becomes a glowing structure
that absorbs a drop of blood from Lena's eyes,
creating an entity that mimics Lena. She runs
and goes out of the hole. The entity follows
Lena, and Lena is unable to escape. She hands
a grenade to the creature and flees. The creature
touches Kane's remains and ignites the lighthouse.
The shimmer fades as she runs.
The man tries to get some details from Lena
about the alien and says, " Do you remember
its form, to which she replies no. The man
says that it came here for a reason. It was
mutating and destroying everything. Lena disagrees
and says it was making something. She gets
to know that Kane's condition stabilized after
the shimmer went down. Lena wants to see him
and asks that you are not Kane. He replies
I am not. Are you Lena, and she says I don't
know? Both of them hug each other, and their
irises shimmer, and the movie ends.